---
name: Nikica Mihaljević
image:
  width: 1035
  height: 1378
---

Dr. Nikica Mihaljević is associate professor at the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Split, Croatia, where she has been teaching since 2001. She teaches Italian literature at the Department of Italian Language and Literature. Prof. Mihaljević has published seven books, as well as numerous articles on the literary works of 19th, 20th and 21st century Italian authors. She has participated at more than forty international conferences and has held lectures at various universities in Europe (France, Holland, Slovenia, Italy, etc.). Her major research interests include 19th, 20th century as well as contemporary Italian literature, women's writing, ecocriticism, migration literature, and comparative literary studies. Professor Mihaljević is the Editor-in-Chief of the international scientific journal “Zbornik radova Filozofskog fakulteta u Splitu” published by the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences in Split. She is also the member of the editorial board of the journal “Mogućnosti” , published by the Croatian cultural association _Književni krug Split_. She is the member of the Editorial Board of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences in Split, as well as of the Faculty Council. Prof. Mihaljević is the member and the coordinator for the University of Split at _The European Consortium of Humanities Institutes and Centres_; she is also the member and the coordinator for the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences in Split at DARIAH-HR (Digital Research Infrastructure for the Arts and the Humanities, Croatia). Prof. Mihaljević is the member of the following associations: _Associazione Internazionale dei Professori d'Italiano_ (A.I.P.I.), AATI (_American Association of Teachers of Italian_), _Association for Literary Urban Studies_, _Hrvatsko filološko društvo_ (HFD). As the Editor-in-Chief, she is the member of the national association for editors ZNAK (_Hrvatska udruga za znanstvenu komunikaciju_) as well as of the international associaton for editors EASE (_European Association of Science Editors_). She is also the member of the Italian cultural association _Italia Nostra_, Italian cultural association _Dante Alighieri_ – Split and the Croatian cultural association _Književni krug Split_.
