---
name: Romana Matanovac Vučković
affiliation: Faculty of Law of the University of Zagreb
---

Romana Matanovac Vučković has been employed as Associate Professor at the Faculty of Law, University of Zagreb. She is specialist in intellectual property law. She was also employed as Deputy Director General of the State Intellectual Property Office (2005-2008) and legal adviser and Head of Media department in Croatian Composers’ Society – Collecting Society (2001-2003).

She is teaching at the courses of the Civil Law, European Private Law, Copyright Law and Industrial Property Law at the Faculty of Law. At the Academy of Dramatic Arts, she is teaching at the courses of Copyright Law and Legislation in Audiovisual Industry and at the Music Academy she is teaching the courses of Social and Legal Aspects of Music and Copyright Law. She has written one book and one book chapter, 45 scientific papers (19 in co-authorship) and 17 professional papers, as well as two professional hand-books (in co-authorship), all that in the field of civil law and intellectual property law.

She was the President of the Council of Experts for remunerations in the field of copyright and related rights (2005-2009) and the President of the Boards of Appeal in the field of industrial property rights (2007-2013). As a member of two working groups, she participated in the preparation of negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union for Chapter 7 – Intellectual Property Law and Chapter 26 – Education and Culture. She has been a member of the Administrative Board of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre (2007-2017). She is an arbitrator at the Permanent Arbitration Court at the Croatian Chamber of Economy.

She also performed many professional tasks: She was a consultant of the European Patent Organization in the projects of legal assistance in the field of intellectual property in Montenegro and at Kosovo, funded by the European Union (2010-2012). She has been cooperating with Pohl Consulting & Associates GmbH from Berlin and the Danish Patent and Trademark Office as a consultant in the project of legal assistance in the field of intellectual property at Kosovo, also funded by the European Union (2013-2014). She also performed professional tasks in the field of intellectual property in Albania, as an expert invited by the competent authorities of particular member states of the European Union. From 2017, she is working as copyright expert for World Intellectual Property Office. From 2010, she has been engaged in several projects implemented at the University of Zagreb, funded by the European Union or credited by the World Bank, which are related to the technology transfer and intellectual property.
